 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

4/13 

b)  (6  pts)  Now  let’s  examine  what  happens  if  we  have  an  image  with  two  black 
pixels and perform a transformation on this image.  In particular, let’s assume that 
our image consists of the vectors 
. Draw both the original image and 

and 

1
 
 
2
 

1
 
 
1
 

1 2


2 4






the image created by transforming that image by the matrix 

.  (Recall that 

transformation in this context means multiplying each vector by the given matrix.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

5/13 

c)  (6 pts) Now let’s imagine we had  an image with black pixels everywhere, and 
 matrix as in part b).  Sketch the 

that we transformed this image by the same 

resulting transformed image.  Note that you don’t need to know the exact size of 
the original image – just indicate what happens to the transformed image as this 
size is increased.  It may help you to consider what happens when you multiply an 
arbitrary  vector  [
x y T   by  the  transformation  matrix.    What  is  property  of  the 
transformation matrix makes the resulting image look the way it does?   

]

1 2


2 4






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

6/13 

PROBLEM 3. Coding for Storage (13 points) 
 
Alice is a budding  young photographer. Given the beautiful weather over the weekend 
she  goes  up  into  the  Berkeley  hills  and  takes  a  bunch  of  gorgeous  pictures  of  San 
Francisco.  She’s  hoping  to  sell  these  pictures  to  make  some  extra  money,  and  so  she 
wants  to  make  sure  she  doesn’t  lose  the  data.  The  images  she  captures  are  all  square 
images of n x n pixels.  Each pixel contains a positive number indicating the intensity of 
light, and for the rest of this problem, you can assume that it takes 3 bytes of memory to 
store such a number.   

 

a)  (2 pts) Alice is known to be clumsy with her laptop and so she doesn’t want to 
just store all the pictures in one place. Instead, she makes 3 copies of the image, 
and  stores  each  copy  on  a  different  USB  stick.  If  Alice  wanted  to  store  1000 
images this way, where each image is 1000 x 1000 pixels (i.e., n = 1000), how 
many total bytes of memory (including all three USB sticks) would Alice need? 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

7/13 

 
 

b)  (5 pts) Alice realizes that if she wants to keep taking pictures, she is going to have 
to become efficient with her storage, she cannot simply keep replicating the data. 
So she focuses on first understanding how she can efficiently store two images. 
Just like in the lab, we’ll express the images as vectors.  
 
Consider  two  image  vectors  x  and  y.  Alice  applies  the  following  strategy:  she 
stores  x  on  the  laptop, y  on  the  USB  stick,  and  x  on  her  phone.  Alice’s  friend 
Elaine instead suggests that Alice use  a different strategy and store x+y  on her 
phone instead (while leaving the data stored on the laptop and USB the same as in 
Alice’s strategy). Is Elaine’s strategy better than Alice’s strategy?  If so, describe 
at  least  one  scenario  where  Elaine’s  strategy  can  recover  the  data  but  Alice’s 
cannot.  If not, explain why the strategies are equivalent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

c)  (6 pts) Let’s now consider a more advanced storage strategy that uses 8 storage 
devices to handle four images a, b, c, and d.  If each pixel (which contains a real 
number representing the intensity) in each of the four image vectors is ai, bi, ci, di, 
the information stored in each pixel location of the 8 storage devices will be ai, bi, 
ci,  di,  ai+bi,  ci+di,  ai+ci,  bi+di.    If  we  were  to  represent  the  storage  action 
happening on each of the pixels as an 8x4 matrix multiplying a 4x1 vector, what 
would the entries in that 8x4 matrix and 4x1 vector be? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

8/13 

 
 

d)  (Bonus: 6 pts) Recalling that a, b, c, and d are all n2 x 1 vectors, show how you 
could perform a single matrix-matrix multiplication to represent the storage action 
of  all  of  the  pixels  simultaneously.    Hint:  what  would  be  the  dimensions  of  a 
matrix composed of [a b c d]T? 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

9/13 

PROBLEM 4. (10 pts) Investment Strategy 
 
Alice finally sells some of her photographs and makes a bunch of money. In fact, she is 
so rich that  at the beginning of every day she can put $1 of her money into the stock 
market.  At the end of the day she sells her stocks and looks at how much money she got 
back. She decides to let a Berkeley-based mutual fund manage the $1 she invests. This 
mutual fund invests in three companies from the area: Friendly Faces  Inc., Search and 
Spend Inc., and Delicious Devices Inc.  
 
Each company has a growth gf(i), gs(i), and gd(i) on day i. What this means is that if Alice 
invests $1 in Friendly Faces on day i, then she gets back gf(i) dollars at the end of day i. 
The mutual fund invests fractions αf, αs, and αd of Alice’s money in each of the three 
companies; note that these fractions are always the same (i.e., they do not change from 
one day to the next), and that all of her money is always invested in the market. 
 

a)  (3 pts) Using the terms defined above, write an expression using a dot product 

that would compute how many dollars Alice gets back after the first day.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

10/13 

 
 

b)  (7  pts)  Let’s  assume  that  on  the  first  day,  Alice  got  back  $1.7  from  her  $1 
investment – i.e., the result of the expression you wrote in part a) is $1.7.  Alice is 
quite happy with the increase, and decides to continue investing.  
 
On the second day, Alice again invests $1 at the beginning of the day, but at the 
end  of  the  day  she  finds  out  that  all  of  her  money  was  lost  –  i.e.,  she  will  be 
getting $0 back!  
 
This makes Alice angry and she wants to find out the investment strategy of the 
mutual  fund.  She  goes  back  and  does  some  research  and  finds  that  gf(1)  =  2,  
gs(1) = 1, and gd(1) = 2, and on the second day gf(2) = 2, gs(2) = 2, but, gd(2) = -3.  
 
Write  a  matrix  equation  Alice  could  use  to  figure  out  what  the  mutual  fund’s 
investment strategy was (i.e., to find the values of αf, αs, and αd).  
 
 
 
 
 
 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

11/13 

PROBLEM 5. (16 pts) Berkeley Forever! 
 
Berkeley,  as  we  all  know,  is  a  great  place  to  live.  But  sometimes  people  make  silly 
decisions, and move to places on the east coast (say Boston) and get stuck in blizzards. 
But of course once they move to the east coast, they quickly  realize the futility of the 
endeavor  and  try  to  come  back  to  Berkeley  as  soon  as  possible.  We  would  like  to 
understand the steady state populations in Beautiful Berkeley versus Blizzardy Boston. 
Let us assume that people only move back and forth between Berkeley and Boston and 
don’t move anywhere else. 
 
Every month, people make the decision to either stay in the same place or move to a new 
place. In a given month, 80% will continue to stay in Berkeley, but there is a 20% chance 
that they will choose to move to Boston. For every person in Boston, there is only a 10% 
chance they will choose to stay in Boston, but 90% will choose to move to Berkeley. 
 

a)  (3 pts) Draw a graph that models this setup.  The nodes in the graph are Berkeley 
and  Boston,  and  the  arcs  between  the  two  nodes  should  be  annotated  with  the 
probabilities of moving from one node to the other. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

( )
x i


= 

( )
i

b)  (4  pts)  Now  let’s  say  we  set  up  a  vector 

T ,  where 
xberkeley(i) represents the number of people living in Berkeley at month i (similarly 
for Boston and xboston(i) ).  Write a matrix Atransition that you could multiply by this 
vector  to  predict  the  number  of  people  living  in  each  city  at  month  i+1  (i.e., 
(
x i
 
 

A
transition

x
berkeley

( )
x i

) 

x
boston

( )
i




1)
+ =

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

12/13 

c)  (9 pts) Now let us say the total population stays constant, and we start with half 
the population in Berkeley and the other half in Boston. Use the matrix you wrote 
above  to  find  the  steady-state  populations  in  Berkeley  and  Boston.  If  the  total 
population is 100, calculate the number of people in Berkeley at steady state?   

 
 

EECS 16A: SPRING 2015 – MIDTERM 1 

 

13/13 


